Steve-O-Murphy analyzer apis documentation (#1594)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _opensearch/rest-api/analyze-apis/index.md

---
layout: default
title: Analyze APIs
parent: REST API reference
has_children: true
nav_order: 7
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/rest-api/analyze-apis/
---

> # Analyze APIs

Reviewer: API - singular, represents an interface with multiple operations

> The analyze APIs allow you to perform text analysis, which is the process of converting unstructured text into individual tokens (usually words) that are optimized for search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The analyze API allows you to perform text analysis, which is the process of converting unstructured text into individual tokens (usually words) that are optimized for search.
```
